I'm CLA Richardson welcome the United
Nations has issued a stark warning about
the plight of Palestinian civilians
trapped by the war in Gaza as Israeli
military forces conduct operations into
the southern city of Rafa the UN says
Aid operations could grind to a halt in
just days vital border crossings remain
shut hospitals are having to close and
air drops along the Gaza Strip have only
brought limited relief another attempt
is underway to bring flies across the
Mediterranean a US container ship
carrying Aid left Cyprus on Thursday in
the hopes of getting much needed relief
to
Gins I'd like to bring in Sam rose with
the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
unra he's joining us today from Rafa Sam
the UN warning Aid is grinding to a halt
can you give us a sense of of what the
consequences of that will be in these
next crucial
days absolutely no we are we're we're
running on empty essentially the borders
closed to supplies the borders closed to
fuel and this will have really serious
impacts on the population of Rafer and
the population of of the rest of Gaza
we've got over a million people still in
RAF and two million people south of w
Gaza half of those people are children
and they're already you know suffering
and enduring
catastrophic conditions in relation to
food security Access to Health Care
Water Sanitation and shelter so if those
supplies grind to a hulks indeed they
they do and and and people are on the
move and suffering the impacts of
another bombardment another operation we
dread to think what what the conditions
will be here now tell us a little bit
about these evacuations from Rafa could
you paint a picture for us of how how
difficult it is for people you over a
million people who've already been
displaced and then tens of thousand of
them to get up and move again to another
part of the Gaza
Strip yeah the situation is incredibly
difficult for for these people we were
estimating as as the UN last night that
around
110,000 people had evacuated outside my
office I I I've I've watched more and
more people leaving today packing up
their things that their their belongings
what what little that they have into
donkey carts bicycles pickup trucks and
just fleeing for for safety so the
people who are evacuating are those
inside the evacuation Zone and those
Beyond it because the bombardments and
the air strikes have gone far beyond
that declared evacuation Zone and people
are on the move it's it's orderly where
I am but other parts of G of Rafa it's
quite chaotic it always is with this
many people on on the move it's a very
desperate situation right now and what
kind kind of considerations are these
people making as they as they take this
difficult decision on the one hand
Israel urging them to leave on the other
hand facing these difficults uh
difficulties in doing so what's going
through their
heads they face an impossible dilemma
many people many of our staff unrest
staff many working from Gaza they've
been displaced five 10 times already so
they're they're faced with this
impossible dilemma they've been through
it before whether in car Unice Gaza City
or elsewhere so either either they
wait uh or or or or or they go now hope
either they wait and hope that nothing
happens or or or they go now and if they
wait the conditions could be worse when
they go because the opportunities to
move when they want to with they with
what they they want to bring will be
will be ever ever more difficult but
it's also conditioned by where they are
going they're being pushed out into sand
Junes very difficult to provide services
every very squalid overcrowded
conditions or else they're being ushered
back or or or into into canun which is a
city that's sustained Savage bombardment
has essentially been raised to the
ground so either sand dunes or the ruins
of bombed out buildings and in both
those places very difficult for any Aid
agencies to reach them and of course
made more difficult night Impossible by
the fact that no materials and no fuel
are coming in right now now Sam rose
with unra thank you very much for
speaking with us on DW
news thank you Israel's primee Minister
binyamin Netanyahu says Israel will
stand alone if the US halts armed
shipments because of Israel's Rafa
offensive President Joe Biden says he
will pause offensive military assistance
if Israel goes through with a major
operation in Rafa more than 1 million
civilians are Sheltering in the southern
gazan city nanahu says Israel must
defeat Hamas which is designated as a
terror organization by the EU and the us
including in
Rafa we are determined and we are united
to defeat our enemies and those who seek
our souls if we have to stand alone we
will stand alone I have said it before
if we have to we will fight tooth and
nail DW correspondent Tanya kma is
following developments for us in
Jerusalem t
how intense are attacks on Rafa
getting well in the past 24 hours there
have been reports of uh air bombardments
and intense shelling in across the Gaza
Strip in Gaza City uh in some of the
neighborhoods but also in central Gaza
but again also very intensive in the
Eastern areas but also in other areas in
uh rafar uh also with reports that uh
tubes and the tangs have been amassing
in the past days across the the Border
fence there in the South now of course
the situation is very fluid and tens of
thousands of people are actually on the
move they have been uh told or ordered
by the Israeli military in those Eastern
parts of rafar to uh go or to evacuate
to other areas towards the western side
of the Gaza Strip now the United Nations
uh uh agencies there they're estimating
that over 80,000 people are have been
heed that call but others put the number
much higher and people are still leaving
also those we've been talking to some of
them on the phone uh saying you know
even those in the areas that have not
been asked to uh uh leave the area
because they're fearing that this could
expand also uh into you know other areas
uh of rafar and now these are of course
people we heard it in the report that
have been displaced time and time again
and they have the choice to either go
you know further back up north to Han
Yunis where a lot of the city is in
wounds and in rubble and or to go to an
area in alari that is on the western
shore side that's a Sandy area and eight
organizations have said you know there's
not enough infrastructure it's a very
difficult uh area for people being there
they have to be in a tent it's another
also very hot day uh uh today here in
the region now and of course the south
is the area where most of the eight
organ organizations have been uh working
and it becomes increasingly uh difficult
for them so it is a situation uh that
gets more dire by the day but Tanya
doesn't a full Israeli offensive in Rafa
put true stalks on the
line well from what we understand now
both delegations the Israeli uh and the
Hamas delegation but also the American
mediator they have all left Cairo now in
the Egyptian foreign Ministry has put
out a statement basically calling on the
two sides that they should they have to
show more flexibility uh to come uh to
uh a deal or an agreement that would see
a temporary ceasefire and the release of
those remaining or at least some some of
the remaining uh hostages uh uh in Gaza
now um there seem to be major
disagreements still from what we
understand on the main points what Hamas
wants a permanent end to uh the war and
a permanent withdrawal of Israeli forces
there's also you know not clear how many
of the hostages that Hamas would be able
to release are still alive but uh you
know we are also hearing time and time
again that uh the Israeli government has
said they want to go into rafar whether
there's a deal or not and that is of
great concern especially here in Israel
to the hostage families of those 128
hostages that are still being held in
Gaza leave there for the time being T
crer in Jerusalem thanks very much